What are the different components of database. Explain.
Explain different services provided by DBMS Over conventional file system.
Discuss different applications Of DBMS.
What is data model. Explain record based logical model,
What is RDBMS? Explain different relational database components.

what is foreign key? Explain foreign key constrain.
What are the different set operations? Explain cross product withsxarnple.
What is DML? Discuss different DML statements.
What is aggregate function? Describe any five useful aggregate functions.
What is union? Describe union operator with suitable example.

What is data modelling? Explain basic styles of data models.
What is entity? Differentiate between strong and weak entity.
What is relationship? Explain different types of relationships.
What is keys? Explain different keys for relationship set.
What is ER modelling? Explain steps in E-R Modelling.


What is decomposition or small schema?
What is functional dependency? Explain sub type of it.
What is normalization? Explain the need of normalization.
What is transaction? Explain the properties of transaction.
What is schedule? Explain recoverable schedules.


Explain what is data and information with example?
what are joins? List down the types of joins.

Consider 'Courier Services System'. In which Administrator is person who handles
administrations of system. Administrator is person who is actually owner ofCourier
Services shop, Client is person who courier the documents or things. Workers are
person who works in courier office to handle enquiry, dispatching process ofcourier's
etc. Payment _ Mode option is available for Client. Client can do Payments by using
different Payment modes.

Draw ER diagram for Courier Service System.
Explain transaction states by giving an example.
what is Normalization? Why we need normalization?

What is Database? What are three advantages of DBMS?
What is a data model? Explain any two types ofdata models.
What is a Functional dependency?

Explain the concept of Super Key, Candidate Key and Primary Key with examples.
Determine functional dependency in Mark sheet table given below:

Roll No.
101
101
102
103


Subject Code
Clio
C112
C122
C123


Marks
82
45
65
70

Explain structure of DBMS.
What is a week entity and strong entity by giving an example each?
Explain ACID properties with the example
A relation NADDR is defined as follows,
NADDR = (name, street, city, state. postal_code)


where name is unique, and for any given postal code, there is just one city and state

    i) Give a set ofFDs for this relation.
    ii) What are the candidate keys?
    iii) 1sNADDRin3NF or2NF?Explainwhy?
    iv) If NADDR is not in 3NF. normalize it into 3NF relations.

What is SQL? Also List down the DDL and DML commands.
What are different types of user that play different roles in a database environment?
What is an attribute? Explain any two types of attributes.
Explain two phase locking protocol?
What is De-Normalization?










